alright so in the last video we ended up
by changing the user input and button
variables to vowels instead of bars and
consequently we were able to remove the
question marks and that's because they
no longer need it was no longer needing
to be writable so we can access the
properties in without using question
marks and you can see that we did that
runs a lot on line 18 and 19 and then we
also made a change on line 26 if you use
them input.txt
dot t-- EXT okay so what i've done there
is made both user input and button local
variables in the uncreate function and
that means that they're not available
anywhere else in the class only inside
the uncreate function we've left
textview as a property declared up at
the start of the class so that it will
be available throughout the class we're
going to see why soon and that will also
explain why you might want to have
widget references as properties so it's
worth actually running the program again
just to make sure that we haven't broken
anything so let's quickly do that I'm
just going to click on the button
without changing the name you can see
that's still being appended so that's
all working fall install now there's one
more change of want to make when the
button is clicked
you have to backspace it to remove the
text in the other text so just going
back and having a look this we wanted to
change this at the moment we've got to
go back and change it before we can
actually change the text to make it
something different so what we should
really be doing is clearing the contents
of the edit text when the button is
clicked now an edit text widgets text
property isn't a string it's an editable
and we saw that in the previous video
when using the ctrl key or command on a
Mac and hovering over the user inputs
text property so that means that this
isn't quite as easy as it may appear but
ultimately what we need to do is to set
out edit text widgets text property to
an empty string when the buttons tapped
now if we go back and look at the code
we were able to set the textview widgets
text property on line 21
you can see that here so you just text
and set that equal to two double quotes
which is an empty string we were able to
do that directly because a string can be
assigned to a textview
which its text property however the same
can't be done with an edit text widget
so how do we go about solving this well
there's actually two ways to do this and
the change actually goes in the on click
function as that's the code that
executes when the user taps the button
so we're going to come down here after
doing the append and we can type user
input dot text thought clear parentheses
so you can see there that I'm using the
clear function of the editable to clear
its contents now we can also use the set
text method instead of letting Kotlin
access the text property directly so we
can come back here and step and comment
that line out and I can instead do it
user import dot set text parentheses and
then two double quotes which is an empty
string now if I use the ctrl command key
depending on your operating system to
hover over set text you can see that it
takes a char sequence type there so the
string type is compatible with char
sequence so therefore a set text works
as we'd expected to now there's very
little work to choose between these two
approaches and so you can experiment by
commenting out each one in turn when you
run the app you'll see that they both
produce the behavior we want just to
confirm that I'm just going to run it
for for this one with the using the dot
set text I press the button noting that
the button is cleared now and I can type
Tim mr. button
that's clearing each time as you can see
all right Tom pre mini-challenge so your
challenge is that when the app starts
the user input field starts off
containing the text name so the user has
to backspace as you saw me do to delete
that before typing in the text they
really want so this many challenge is to
get you to figure out how to remove that
default from the user input widget when
the app first starts so go ahead and see
if you can figure that out
pause the video and come back when
you're ready to see the solution
all right well there's several ways to
do this when programming so the test
here again is doesn't work and not that
you've got exactly the same code as I'm
about to show you so you could for
example have changed the layout so
there's no text in the Edit text widget
that's a good solution and later in the
course I'll be showing your way to still
have text in a widget without it
appearing when the app runs for my
solution though I'm going to clear the
text from user import in the oncreate
method and you can also have use the
clear method as we've saw earlier so I'm
going to come up here we've got the line
here textview movement method equals
scroll moving method after that I'm
going to call user imports top in I
should say user import dot set text and
double quotes in there that's going to
be executed after that's been set up now
in the next video I'm going to start by
discussing the activity lifecycle and
show you what we're not with our inner
text when the device was rotated so
let's actually try this out and we can
see now that we've started out with no
text in the inner text which is correct
and I can type in something I'm still
being cleared each time so that's
working
alright so in the next video what I'm
going to do is discuss the activity
lifecycle and show you what actually
went on without enter text when the
device was rotated which you saw a few
videos ago now by the way you might find
I talked about methods rather than
functions in some of the videos coming
up as Scotland programmers we're used to
talking about functions named in Java
they're called methods but don't worry
about the different names they're
basically the same thing because the
lifecycle functions in the android
framework are currently written in java
technically they are methods rather than
functions so I generally will use the
word method when talking about framework
functions and sometimes I may get
confused and say method well I should
say function and I think I've already
done that a few times in this course it
will vice-versa but hopefully I won't do
any more but if I do just keep in mind
that they're really the same thing here
all right so what I'm going to do is end
by reformatting the code so I'm going to
go ahead and do that code reformat all
right so I'll see you in the next video